Welcome. Attention is a
very important concepts and
allows you to focus
where the model is
looking at whenever
making a prediction.
For example, when translating
one paragraph from
English to French,
you can focus on translating
one sentence at a
time or even more,
a couple of words at a time.
Let's dive into this concept.
What we call attention
now was introduced in
a landmark paper from
Dzmitry Bahdanau,
KyungHyun Cho, and
Yoshua Bengio.
The authors developed a method
to fix the seek to seek models,
and ability to translate
longer sentences.
As you can see, attention was
originally developed for
machine translation,
but it's since being used in
many other domains
with great success.
Before we move forward,
I want to skip ahead
a bit and show
you how well attention works.
It's surprising.
Here's a comparison of
the performance between
different models from
the Bahdanau paper
using the bleu score,
a performance metric that
you'll learn about later.
In brief, higher
scores are better,
indicating more
correct translations.
The dashed lines, they
showed the scores for
bidirectional seek
to seek model as
the length of the input
sentence is increased.
The 30 and 50 denotes
the maximum sequence length
used to train the models.
As you can see, the seek
to seek models perform
welfare sentences with
about 10-20 words,
but they fall off beyond that.
This is what you should expect.
A seek to seek models
must store the meaning of
the entire input sequence,
any single vector.
The models developed
in this paper,
RNN search 13-15,
use bidirectional encoders and
decoders, but with attention.
First, these models
perform better than
the traditional seek to seek
models across all
sentence length.
The RNN search 50 model has
basically no fall off in
performance as sentence
lengths increase.
As you will see, this is because
the models are able to focus on
specific inputs to predict
words in the output translation,
instead of having to memorize
the entire input sentence.
Now I'll show you the motivation
behind attention
and how it works.
Traditional seek to seek models,
use the final hidden states of
the encoder as the initial
hidden state of the decoder.
This forces the encoder
to store the meaning of
the entire input sequence
into this one hidden states.
Instead of using only
the final hidden states,
you can pass all the hidden
states to the decoder.
However, this quickly
becomes inefficient as you
must retain the
hidden states for
each input step in memory.
To solve this, you can
combine the hidden
states into one vector,
typically called
the context vector.
The samples operation here
is the point-wise addition.
Since the hidden vectors
are all the same size,
you can just add up
these vector elements by
elements to produce another
vector of the same size.
But now the decoder is
getting information
about each step.
But It really only
needs information
from the first few inputs steps
to predict the first word.
This isn't that much
different from using
the last hidden states
from LSTM or GRU.
The solution here is to wait
certain encoder vectors more
than others before the
point-wise addition,
[inaudible] are
more important for
the next decoder outputs
would have larger weights.
That this way, the
context vector
holds more information about
the most important words and
less information
about other words.
But how are these
weights calculated to
determine which input words
are important at each step?
The decoders previous
hidden states,
denoted as S_I minus 1,
contains information
about the previous words
in the output translation.
This means, you can compare
the decoder states with
each encoder state to
determine the most
important inputs.
Intuitively, the decoder can
set the weights such that if
it focuses on only the
most important inputs
words for the next prediction,
it decides which parts of
the input sequence
to pay attention to.
Now step into the
attention layer to examine
how the weights and context
vector are calculated.
The goal of the attention
layer is to return
a context vector that contains
the relevant information
from the encoder states.
The first step is to
calculate the alignments,
E_IJ, which is a
score of how well
the inputs around J match
the expected output its I.
The more the much, the higher
of his score we will expect.
This is done using the
feedforward neural network
with the encoder and decoder
hidden states as inputs,
where the weights for the
feedforward network are
learned along with the rest
of the seek to seek model.
The scores are then
turned into weights
which range from zero to one
using the softmax function.
This means the weights
can be thought of as
a probability distribution
which sum to one.
Finally, each encoder
states is multiplied by
its respective weights and sum
together into one
context vector.
Since the weights are the
probability distribution,
this is equivalent
to calculating
an expected value
across word alignments.
Next up, you'll get
a better understanding
of how all this works by
implementing a simple version of
the attention operation
from the Bahdanau paper.
I have now shown
you how attention
works and why it is important.
In the next video,
I will define what our keys,
queries and values, and
show you how to use
them in attention.